Welcome back.
A flask.
Has this other tool called variable rules that we haven't talked about.
And what variable rules allows us to do is to do something like this dynamic.
So for example slash user slash with these greater than and less than signs and the user name.
Now we'll get back to this in a second and some of this syntax but if we go back what we can do here
in our server dot pie is perhaps let's remove this because we don't need it anymore inside of our hello
world let's say that we want name in here or in our case user name.
Now the neat thing is that flask is going to look at this and say oh this is something that we can pass
on into this function so I can now say user name equals the user name that we receive.
So let's say user name and let's just change this to name just so you see what the differences are.
So I'm placing whatever I receive here into the hello world name parameter and now in my index dot HMO
I can pass on this data by simply doing a second parameter and saying name equals to name.
So now if I see this go back to my index dot HMO and put in name in here and if I go back to our home
page if we go to our home page and I made a little mistake here.
This should be over here.
So it's saying user name from up here is going to equal a default if we want.
So it's usually a good idea to have a default.
I'll just do none for now.
So that user name now is going to be user name in here like this.
If I save go back I get a not found because we don't have a home page anymore but anytime I do let's
say Andre I get look at that Andre on my page I get Bob and my good friend Sally how cool is that.
So it's able to read that you U.R.L. and passing data this way and if we go to our flask documentation
and we go to variable rules you see that we have different rules that we can apply.
For example we can actually require to accept a positive integer or a string or a float a path so it
accepts slashes or something called you you I.D. which is kind of like a unique identifier.
So let's try that.
Let's do a post I.D. here or in our case let's just copy this and say I also want the user name and
then perhaps accept some sort of a number.
So instead of post I.D. maybe it could be.
I don't know actually post I.D. is good.
Let's keep it like that.
And let's make this a little bit bigger now in here.
The second parameter can be the post I.D. that's going to equal to none to begin with.
And we're also going to pass this as post I.D. that's going to equal the post I.D. I save this go to
index dot HMO and in here let's do name and then we'll also do the post I.D. in here.
Phi safe go back and I refresh well again because we've made are you are all very specific we'll just
have to give some sort of a number and look at that.
I have Sally too so that's her second blog post and the fifth blog post.
So on and so forth.
And if I do something that's not a number.
So if I do some string I get not fund because I've made the rule using this syntax.
So end with the call in saying that that this has to be an I.D. and I passed data down this way.
So now we've created a full out server.
We now are able to use you are ls to communicate with the server and ask for specific data for it to
receive our server based on what you are all parameters we give it or endpoints is able to decide what
resource to send to the front end so that it can display the appropriate information.
But we can also do something interesting like perhaps when we submit a form to actually sent perhaps
the user's name with the form so that when we send back a thank you note we can say Thank you Andre
or thank you.
Whatever the user name is very very cool.
Now these variable rules as you can see there's a few of them and you can read through the documentation.
You might also notice this syntax here which is the percent sign or percent S or percent D.
This is actually a nother feature of Python that you can read about.
But again it's not critical to your understanding of Python.
For now though I think we have the basic skills necessary to start building our portfolio Web site because
up until now frankly this Web site doesn't look that great so starting in the next video we're going
to build a really really cool Web site something that looks well more like this so that by the end of
it we can have a fully fledged portfolio Web site.
And even though it seems like you haven't learned that much yet you actually have learned all the skills
necessary to build something like this.
Well kind of let's go explore some more in the next video.